<PAPERNUM>PN78112</PAPERNUM>
<TITLE>Separation of ciliary dyskinesia substances found in serum and secreted by cystic fibrosis leukocytes and lymphoid cell lines, using protein A--Sepharose CL-4B.</TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>Cell-free culture medium from PHA-stimulated PBL cultures or long-term lymphoid cell lines from CF homozygotes or obligate heterozygotes, as well as serum from such individuals, can produce three distinct changes in the ciliary beat of rabbit tracheal ciliated epithelium: (1) increased beat frequency, (2) CD, and (3) ciliostasis. The ability to produce both 1 and 2 seems to be characteristic for leukocyte cultures from CF genotypes: 46 of 49 CF cultures produced both effects, as compared with none of 16 cultures from normal controls and 1 of 10 from non-CF patient controls with bronchial asthma. CTA was not specific for CF PBL cultures, since 13% of normal control and 60% of the non-CF patient control cultures produced ciliostasis. Similar findings were obtained when serum from the same individuals or culture medium from long-term lymphoid cell lines was tested. Using protein A from Staphylococcus aureus covalently coupled to Sepharose CL-4B as a reagent, we separated the CDAs present in serum and in culture medium from PBL and lymphoid cultures. Protein A specifically adsorbs IgG and binds it under mild conditions at physiological pH. The CDAs are noncovalently bound to IgG at physiological pH and can be co-purified with IgG. The IgG-CDA complexes can be readily desorbed from protein A-Sepharose CL-4B at pH 3.0, and under these conditions the CDAs are dissociated from IgG, retain all their activity, and can be separated by chromatography on Bio-Gel P-10 or Sephadex G-200. Three distinct activities were removed from serum or PBL cultures which showed both CDA and CTA, and two were obtained from samples which showed only CDA. One CDA believed to be specific for CF (CF-CDA) was separated from CF serum and PBL or lymphoid cell culture medium. This CF-CDA was complexed noncovalently to IgG (not subclass IgG3), had a molecular weight of 4000 to 6000, was stable as acid pH, was found in biological fluids from both homozygotes and heterozygotes for CF, was shown not to be C3a (anaphylatoxin), did not require IgG for activity, and was positively charged at pH values more acidic than 8.0.</ABSTRACT>
