<PAPERNUM>PN79110</PAPERNUM>
<ABSTRACT>Acute pseudomonas infections require treatment with antibiotics producing a bactericidal effect. The most useful are gentamicin, tobramycin, sisomicin and polymyxin B. In resistant strains, amikacin is indicated in addition. Carbenicillin, ticarcillin, carfenicillin or azocillin should never be given alone but in combination with some of the above preparations. Other drugs, such as chloramphenicol, tetracycline or streptomycin, though effective in vitro, should be avoided. Chemotherapy may be complemented by passive immunization either with hyperimmune specific gama globulin or hyperimmune plasma. A programmatic item of combined treatment is active immunization, especially with toxoid vaccine. Chronic processes are not, perhaps with the exception of urinary infections, suitable for antibiotic therapy. For this reason effective polyvalent vaccines should be developed from appropriate strains. It is now certain that in infections caused by mucous strains (most frequently encountered in cystic fibrosis) the vaccine should be prepared from these strains, since they have distinct functional and antigenic characteristics.</ABSTRACT>
<TITLE>Multiple of isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa with differing antimicrobial susceptibility patterns from patients with cystic fibrosis.</TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>Clinical isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from patients with cystic fibrosis were studied in an effort to determine the unique characteristics of the infecting strains and to elucidate the pattern of colonization. Of 413 patients studied, 81% were chronically infected with P. aeruginosa. Patients from whom P. aeruginosa was never or only occasionally isolated were in better clinical condition than the chronically infected patients. Isolates were classified into six morphologic varieties: classic, rough, mucoid, gelatinous, dwarf, and enterobacter. Most patients had two or more of these varieties. Such multiple varieties from the same individual were of the same serotype but often differed in antibiotic susceptibility as determined by both the disk and the minimal inhibitory concentration methods. These differences were apparent when mucoid strains were compared with nonmucoid strains and when nonmucoid strains were compared with one another. Studies of antibiotic susceptibility should be performed on each morphologically different type of P. aeruginosa obtained from patients with cystic fibrosis.</ABSTRACT>
