<PAPERNUM>PN79023</PAPERNUM>
<TITLE>A comparative study of inhaled atropine sulfate and isoproterenol hydrochloride in cystic fibrosis.</TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>To investigate the contribution of vagal tone to the obstructive airway disease in cystic fibrosis, we evaluated the pulmonary function response to administration of 0.1 mg of atropine sulfate per kg of body weight, 0.05 mg of isoproterenol hydrochloride per kg of body weight, or isotonic saline (control solution) administered by nebulization on 3 different days to each of 10 patients with cystic fibrosis in a single blind study. The doses of atropine sulfate and isoproterenol hydrochloride were based on published dose-response characteristics of the drugs. Each day, thoracic gas volume and airway resistance were measured in a volume displacement body plethysmograph, and maximal expiratory flow-volume curves were performed before and at 15, 30, and 60 min after the inhalation. After inhalation of saline, group mean values for all pulmonary functions indicated greater airway obstruction at 15, 30, and 60 min when compared to pretreatment values. After inhalation of isoproterenol and atropine, significant improvement (P &lt; 0.05) was noted in maximal expiratory flows at 60 per cent of total lung capacity, specific airway conductance, thoracic gas volume, and residual volume. Inhalation of atropine also significantly improved maximal expiratory flow at 25 per cent of vital capacity. Isoproterenol increased the mean flows by 8 to 46 per cent above baseline, and decreased thoracic gas volume and residual volume by 11 to 16 per cent with the maximal response at 15 or 30 min. Atropine increased mean flows by 15 to 77 per cent and decreased thoracic gas volume and residual volume by 16 to 25 per cent with the maximal effect at 30 to 60 min. The mean response to atropine, expressed as a percentage of baseline, was always greater than or equal to that for isoproterenol. We conclude that vagal tone, which may reflect increased irritant receptor activity, contributes to the obstructive pulmonary function in cystic fibrosis. Inhalation of atropine sulfate will decrease the pulmonary function abnormality, but side effects prohibit its clinical usefulness.</ABSTRACT>
