<PAPERNUM>PN79141</PAPERNUM>
<TITLE>The chronically ligated submandibular salivary duct of the rabbit as a possible model for cystic fibrosis [proceedings].</TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>Schulz (1969) showed that the raised Na concentration in the sweat of children suffering from cystic fibrosis was due to a defect in Na reabsorption in the duct epithelium, but somewhat surprisingly the transepithelial potential difference (p.d.) is the same as that in normal controls. Na transport is also reduced in the chronically ligated salivary duct of the rabbit submandibular gland (Fraser & Smaje, 1978), and because p.d. is unaffected, the ligated gland may be a useful model of this aspect of cystic fibrosis. Here we would like to report a further similarity to cystic fibrosis; duct ligation leads to goblet cell hyperplasia which also occurs in the salivary glands in cystic fibrosis (Lev & Spicer, 1965). Sections of the salivary duct 6 microm thick were taken at 60 microm intervals from ducts which had been ligated for between 1 and 5 weeks and from their contralateral controls following fixation by immersion. Ligation resulted in an increase in luminal diameter by distension of the previously convoluted epithelium, but there was no significant change in epithelial surface area. The number of cell layers appeared to have increased however and there was a proliferation of goblet cells. The mucus in these cells was stained by alcian blue at pH 1 indicating the presence of sulphomucin. The mean goblet cell density rose from 7.62 plus or minus 4.73 mm-2 (mean plus or minus S.E. of the mean, n = 6) in controls to 114 plus or minus 49.6 in ligated ducts. The transepithelial Na flux in the same ducts was reduced from 10.1 plus or minus 0.79 n-mole cm-2 sec-1 to 1.6 plus or minus 0.84 while p.d. remained at -22 mV, similar to those results previously reported. There was no significant correlation between the degree of diminution of Na transport and the density of goblet cells but there was a positive correlation (r = 0.90) between the number of goblet cells in the control and contralateral ligated ducts.</ABSTRACT>
