<PAPERNUM>PN79169</PAPERNUM>
<TITLE>The short-term effects of chest physiotherapy on lung function tests in children with cystic fibrosis.</TITLE>
<ABSTRACT>Chest physiotherapy is an important part of the treatment program of children with cystic fibrosis, but controlled studies of its effects are few. 27 children with cystic fibrosis, 20 being chronic sputum producers and 7 non-sputum producers, were studied in hospital with serial lung function tests on 3 consecutive days. On the 1st day physiotherapy was performed twice; on the 2nd day no physiotherapy was performed; on the 3rd day the two periods of physiotherapy were preceded by an inhaled bronchodilator (Rimiterol). Lung function tests included peak flow, forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1.0) and residual volume to total lung capacity ratio, and were measured at the beginning of each day and at similar intervals throughout the 3 days. Sputum volume and cough frequency were noted on day 1 and day 3. Physiotherapy resulted in significant improvement of peak flow in the sputum producers. However, the FVC and FEV1.0, while improving after physiotherapy, also improved on the control day when no physiotherapy was performed. This suggests that physiotherapy may be effective in removing sputum from central large airways with resultant improvement in peak flow, but has little added effect on the more peripheral airways, whose airflow improves through the day with normal activity. No significant effect was shown in the non- sputum producers although there was a trend towards improvement in peak flow. A bronchodilator before physiotherapy may be beneficial in those patients who demonstrate significant reduction in airflow obstruction at formal testing of bronchodilator response, but may lessen the beneficial effects of physiotherapy in those without a positive response. The study illustrates the importance of examining difference methods of chest physiotherapy, to find ways of improving sputum clearance.</ABSTRACT>
